Job/HR Interview Questions

A list of frequently asked job interview questions or HR interview questions and answers are given below. 


1) Tell me about yourself?

This is the most famous question for an interviewer and also most difficult to answer this question for the candidate. This question puts all the pressure on the candidate and the interviewer relax.

You should alert enough to answer this question. You should start with an easy and confident tone and answer in a proper manner. It should not be scripted. Always remember, you are not giving interview to a robot so your articulation, your pronunciation of each words should be clear and confident.

A good way:

Analyze your interviewer interests.

Express your most important accomplishments first.

For example:


"Good morning/afternoon/evening" sir/mam.

First of all thank you for giving me this opportunity to introduce myself.

My name is Ajeet Kumar.


As far as my education qualification is concerned, I have done MBA with finance stream from Srivenkateswara university in Emrald's P. G. College, Tirupathi, in the year of 2014.

I have completed B.tech from N.I.T Jaipur in 2012.

I have completed my schooling from G.I.C. Allahabad.

As par as my family is concerned, I belong to a middle class family. My father is a doctor .My Mother is home maker and my brother is preparing for civil services.

I am good in programming languages C, C++, and Java and very much interested in HTML, CSS, ASP. Net and SQL.

My strength is self confidence, positive attitude, hard work.

My weakness is : I can easily believe every one My hobbies are: Watching news channels, Playing volleyball, Listening to music.

2) Describe yourself in one world?

This question is asked to the candidate to judge how spontaneous and explaining he is. If he uses a word he must be able to explain that word and also represent himself according to that word.

These are some positive words. You can use it but be sure that you are judging with the word.

Original , genuine , logical, incredible, focused, curious, active, quick, balanced, achiever etc. 


3) Why did you leave your last job?

You should be very careful with this question. Avoid trashing other employers and making statement like "I need more money". Instead of this you can say that-

Sir, it's a career move. I have learnt a lot from my last job, but now I am looking for new challenges to broaden my horizons and to gain a new skill-set.


4) What are your strengths?

You should always remember that even if your strength is not business related, find a way to relate it to work. Tell your positive points related to the job.

For example -these may be some great answers:
•My main strengths are the ability to use my own initiative to take on challenges. I am always proactive at what I do and that keeps my mind simulated and focused.
•My greatest strengths would be my intelligence and thoughtfulness. I believe that in every work environment you need to process every step and be detailed in your work. 
•My time management skills are excellent and I'm organized, efficient, and take pride in excelling at my work.
•I always understand the value of time and I am always able to innovate. I listen to advice from others. 
•My greatest strength is my ability to focus on my work. I'm not easily distracted, and this means that my performance is very high.


5) What are your weaknesses?

Everyone has weaknesses so answering this question don't spend so much time on this. This question is generally asked to know how honest you are with yourself. State one or two minor weaknesses and try to relate it work. (avoid saying "I work too hard" it is a very common answer). Don't pretend you don't have weaknesses, and don't avoid answering the question.

For example-

you can say, "I used to be very disorganized, always forgetting assignments and birthdays. But I managed to work out a computerized system of to-do lists and reminders that keeps me on top of everything."


6) Why are you applying for this job? (or)

Why this role attract you? (or)

By this question the interviewer wants to know that -
•If you fully understand what the job entails
•How well you might match their requirement
•What appeals to you most about this job

Before answering this question, take your own time an answer in way that convince the interviewer. Explain your qualities according to above stated points.

For example -- I have applied for this vacancy because it is an excellent match for my skills and experience. This role is exactly the sort of role I am currently targeting and I am confident I will be able to make a major contribution.


7) What is the difference between confidence and overconfidence?

Confidence based on facts and knowledge and overconfidence based on speculation. There is a small difference between confidence and overconfidence. Yes, I can do this work is self confidence. But only I can do this work is over confidence. 

Or you can say that- confidence is an internal believe that I am a right person for this job and overconfidence is thought that I am only the right person for this job.


8) What is the difference between smart work and hard work?

Smart work and hard work are related to each other. Without being a hard worker we can't be a smart worker. Smart work comes from the hard work. That means everyone has to specialize in his work to become a smart worker. So, all of us have to do hard work to achieve smart work.

So hard work increases your accuracy and smart work increases accuracy as well as efficiency.


9) What are your achievements in life?

This question may be also asked as what are your biggest achievements? Or what are you most proud of?

You should discuss only work related achievements. Try to pick a recent achievement.

For example-

My greatest achievement so far in my career would probably be winning the Manager of the Year award last year. 

Or

My biggest accomplishment is overcoming my fear of failure. It gives me complete sense of living and make me more confident.


10) What was the biggest mistake of your life?

While answering this question you should choose a story containing not too many mistakes. It should be real.

Talk about the mistake but it is also important to convince the interviewer that you never make the same mistake again.

For example -

I think the worst mistake I ever made at work was in my first ever job ? five years ago now. A more senior member of the team seemed to take an instant dislike to me from the start ? and one day she was particularly unpleasant to me in front of several colleagues. Later on, I was talking to one of those colleagues who was, I thought, attempting to console me. Angry and hurt, I foolishly vented my feelings and told her what I thought of the lady in question. I was naturally shocked to find out that she went on to tell everyone what I had said and this certainly didn?t help my relationship with the team member who was causing me problems. Rather than let the situation carry on, I chose to have a quiet word with this lady so as to find out what her problem was with me and to see if we could put it behind us. It turned out it was nothing personal; she just resented the fact that a friend of hers had also been interviewed for my position and had been turned down. Once we had got matters out into the air, her behavior changed and we actually got on quite well after that. However, I certainly learned a lot from the experience. I learned that careful communication is vital in managing interpersonal relationships and that if I have a problem with someone it?s always best to talk it over with them rather than with someone else. 


13) What are your hobbies?

It is totally depend on you what you like and what hobbies do you have but always justify your answer. 


12) What do you know about this organization?

You should fully aware of that organization where you are going for an interview, so check the history, present structure and working style of that organization. Check the company's website, Facebook, Twitter, Google+, LinkedIn pages to gather the information.


13) Are you applying for other jobs also?

This question have a very specific purpose. The interviewer want to know that if the candidate admit that he has applied other places or gives a canned answer. Or what the candidate think about their company.

Never claim that you did not apply for other company. Despite this you can say that -

As you know I would like to work as a software developer. Beyond your company I have also applied to XYZ company and ABC company. This answer is more specific.


14) Do you have any reference? (or)

Do you know anyone who work for us? 

This question have just two answers, YES or NO. if you know anyone from that company say YES, otherwise NO.


15) Would you lie for the company?

You should answer this question in a very diplomatic manner.

You can say that-

"It depends on the situation, if my lie create a positive impact on the company and It was useful for many people, then I will lie."

Or

"Probably I would say no for lie. But if condition persists that my lie will help thousand of persons and it not giving any impact to other persons then I will really agree with lie. My one lie results lot of success and happiness without hurting others rights then I expect to do this."


16) What is your objective of life?

Your answer should be realistic and practical.

For example -

"My short term goal is to work in a reputed organization like yours where I can enhance my technical skills and knowledge.

My long term goal is to see the company at top most position where I am one of the person responsible for that." 

Or

"My goal is to become a successful person and make my family proud of me."


17) Just imagine that you have enough money to retire right now. Would you?

If your answer is YES, you are surely get FAILED.

You can say that: "No sir, I don't think so. I am a professional and I love my work so there is no question of leave my work. Yes, it may be that I would take a break to spend a quality time with my family."


18) What are your salary expectations?

Don't ask your salary in exact numbers, instead of this show your commitment to the job itself.

You can say that -

"I am more interested in the role than the pay and I expect to be paid appropriate money for this role based on my experience. As you also know that high cost of living here in Delhi."


19) Explain, how would you be an asset to this organization?

While answering this question, don't merely say that you are hard working, dedicated, punctual etc. because these are not assets, these are the responsibility as management wants. Off course these are positive words and has a lot of meaning for you as well as for company. Actually these qualities make you an asset for the company after getting experience.

So you can say that -

"To become asset for an organization we have to punctual, dedicated, quickly adapt of environment and positive working attitude I have all of these qualities so I will prove an asset for this company."

Or

"As I'm a fresher, I'll be passionate about my work and if given a chance I'll be ready to expose myself into different sectors of work into the industry, and would be faithful to the company always."


20) Why should we hire you?

Tell your qualifications and highlight that points who makes you unique.

This may be a good answer (for freshers) -

"I believe that every one starts with a beginning, I need a platform to prove my abilities and skills. I think your company is the right place to explore my abilities. I need to be a part of your growth. I will do my level best."

Or

"As a fresher I need a platform to prove my ability. If I will be a part of your company I'll put my effort and strength to uplift your company. None is born with experience, if you hire me I will get professional experience through your company."

(For experienced)

"I have a good experience in that particular field (field of your specialization) and I think, I have an excel wiz now to work fast and efficient."


21) What is more important to you : the money or the work?

This is a very tricky question. The work should always be more important than the money. This frame of mind is good for you.(at least at the time of interview).

You can say that :

"Money is always important, but the work is most important for me."

Or

"I would say work is more important. If we work and achieve Company goals then obviously money would follow .I believe work to be prior."

Or

"I think money probably matters to me about as much as it does to anyone. It's obviously vital and necessary for us to live and prosper but, at the same time, it's not my single most important driving force. It is my believe that money is rewarded for work."


22) Do you have any blind spot?

It is a trick question. So don't specify your actual weaknesses. Instead of this try to show you are very team oriented

For example:

"I would say everyone has blind spots and I would too. And that is why I believe in teamwork because when you are a team you can point out other people?s blind spots and they will do the same for you."

Note: "don't admit failing as a blind spot. A failure is not a blind spot."


23) Assume you are hired, then how long would you expect to work for us?

"I will do my best for the growth of your company for a long period of time. As long as I have the career growth, job satisfaction, respect and a healthy environment Then I don't need to change my company." 

Or

"I will work as long as my presence benefits the company and I get ample opportunity to grow and develop both professionally and monetarily." 

Or

"Everyone looks for bright future, healthy work environment, good salary, job satisfaction and I am pretty sure that your company give such things so I don't need to change the company."


24) Don't you think that you are overqualified for this position?

This is trick of interviewer to trap you and judge how boasting you are? 

So, be alert to answer this question and don't even hint to the interviewer that you are overqualified although you are. 

This is a good answer:

"I think I am qualified for this post because I am just a beginner and have lots more to learn. I think qualification is not only a matter of theoretical knowledge or results; it also depends on practical knowledge and learning. When I will get practical knowledge then I would consider myself just a well-qualified not overqualified. Because learning never ends." 


25) Do you have any questions for me?

It's your turn now. If you get such an opportunity, you may ask questions like that:

"Thank you for giving me this opportunity. After my overall performance till now if I got selected what I need to improve and if I'm not selected how can I succeed further. Can you give any advice sir?"


26) On a scale of one to ten, rate me as an interviewer?

Sir, I'm not in the position to rate you as an interviewer. Any way I'm not going to disappoint you. As an interviewer you've fulfilled your job, So, I can give you 10 out of 10. But I'll give you 9/10 as there should be always a scope to increase our skills which will creates an interest in learning the things. Thank you very much for giving me this wonderful opportunity.

Or

Thank you for giving me such an opportunity but for sure I am not person to rate you. As it is obvious that your position is highly reputed and you have been chosen to undergo this process that shows your excellence at this place but still I have to answer this question so honestly it would be 9/10 as no one is perfect and we always leave room for improvement.


27) How do you handle stress, pressure and anxiety?

It is a typical interview question asked to judge how you handle the job stress and pressure.

For example-

I believe to work in a planned way and finish my work regularly. I always react to situations, rather than to stress. In this way I handle situation and don't take stress.

Or

I go to gym regularly and do work out. In this way I remove my stress. I believe that physical exercise is a great stress reducer.


28) What is the disappointment in your life?

This question is asked to judge, what type of situations make you uncomfortable and disappointed. While answering this question, don't just say your disappointment. Instead of this, you should include what you learn from that incident.

For example: the greatest disappointment in my life so far as when my laptop had stolen and I had lost all my important data. I remember, I had to work hard for the next 10 days to re do all my work to make sure to submit on the time.

If you did not face any disappointment in your life then say so:

Sir, I don't feel that I have face such type of situation.


29) Would you like to work overtime or odd hours?

You should become very honest to answer this question. Don't tell a lie or compromise to get the job only.


30) What makes you angry? 

You should always answer this question in a manner that suits both your personality and management too.

Sir, I am not a short tempered person but I feel a bit of annoyance when someone disturbs me in my work without a genuine reason. Although I am even tempered person but when I get angry, I try to channel my negative feeling in my work.


31) What was the most difficult decision you have made in your past life?

This question is asked to judge your decision making capabilities. The interviewer want to know, how you take decision in tough times.

After completing my graduation, the toughest decision is whether to go for higher studies or do a job. Then I chose job because getting trained is better than educated and it was also the demand of that time.

Or

My toughest decision was to take admission in B.tech. I belong to a lower middle class family, my father was not in the favour of taking admission, but I convinced him and today he is very happy.


32) How did you know about this position/ vacancy?

Just tell the source from where you got the information about this post. If the interviewer ask, what you know about this position or what appeals you most in this position? 

Then you can add:

I have carefully studied both the job description and the person specification so I am fully aware of the duties and responsibilities of this role.


33) What gets you up in the morning?

I am excited about the possibilities, about learning more, about getting it right and becoming better at my career. I believe in what I?m doing. If the day comes when I don?t, I?ll find a new career. I promise. Until then, it never hurts, to remind myself of these things along the way.

Or

It is my promise that gets up me in the morning. My promise is to learn something new and someone in need. It provides me satisfaction that I am making difference in someone life.


34) What is your favorite book? 

This question is asked to judge your taste about reading books. The interviewer wants to know what types of book you like. Would you fit for the company culture?

Answer this question according to your sense, your knowledge about the book. Only named the books you have really read. You should choose something by a reputable author that your interviewer has probably heard of.


35) As you said, internet surfing is your hobby. Which site do you surf mostly?

This is your choice that which sites you surf most, but while answering this question always refers sites which are relevant to your field of job. Don?t take name of social networking sites or other irrelevant sites. 


36) How you deal with an angry or irritated customer?

I would try to find out exactly what the problem was, and evaluate if there was something I could do to make it right.

Or

I would ask the customer to explain his problem and carefully listen him. After that I do my best to solve his problem. If that problem is not regarding my work area I spoke to someone who could help hem immediately.


37) what does success mean to you?

If I feel I am making a difference working with a team of people to make a more profitable company. It is success for me.

If I put a smile on someone face and make him happy it is success for me.
