Here are some tips on answering the most frequently asked questions in a personal interview :
Tell me something about your self.
Go prepared for this question, as this is the most frequently asked question in the interview.

Answer it covering your work experience, educational qualifications and a little information about your family background.

Try to focus on key areas of your work while talking about your professional experience. This is an open ended question and can help you in taking the interview in which ever direction you want it to go.

You should know where to put a full stop to provoke the desired question from the interviewer. 

Why does this role interest you? Or why have you applied for this job?
Keep the focus of the answer to this question on your skills, experience and personal qualities.

Link the job requirement to your skills rather than talking about the challenges, career and progression.
Why do you think should we take you for this job?
Don't panic if you are asked this question. Make sure that you have understood the job profile well before you go for the interview.

Relate your qualifications and work experience with the job requirements.

If there are any new things that you are expected to perform in the new job, say that you are always open to learn the new things and take up the new challenges.
What motivates you at work?
You can say that competition and new challenges motivate you at work.
Why do you want to leave your present job or why did you leave your last job?
The reasons for switching the job could be numerous. The best answer to offer for this question is to say, “for better prospects”.

Now they can ask you another question, what do you mean by better prospects? To this you can say, better prospects in terms of experience, and exposure.

If you have been made redundant, put your words across very carefully. Your wrong words can give an impression that only you were the one whose position was made redundant, which hardly might be the case.

May be you can say something like, “Over last 8 months a lot of restructuring was going on in the company and 40 positions became surplus. One of them was mine but I have learnt a lot during my tenure at XYZ company and I am sure I can add a lot of value to a position like the we are discussing about”. 











Tell me something about yourself.
This is the vital question of the interview. Before answering this question you must understand the purpose behind it. The answer to this question reflects what you think about yourself. 

The answer should be in such a way that it should not be like you are reading your CV all over again. It can be something like - 
Sir , as you already know my name is XXXX. Tell about your birth place, schooling details…..till college. Discuss the time from your birth till now…….There is no need to mention the percentage of marks you scored in the school. You can mention the percentage of marks you scored in college, if it is good.

In the end finish it with a question, for e.g., Is there any thing else you would like to know about me, sir? 





Tell me something about your parents.
My father’s name is XXXXXX. Discuss his occupation along with his contribution to society and role played by him in society.

About your mother - same as above, if she is working.

If she is a house wife then never undermine her contribution by referring to her as a simple house wife. You should portray her as a house maker. Along with this, mention that she is doing her job since so many years consistently without any leave and any appreciation. 





If you want to change any thing in your life, what will you change?
I am very much happy and satisfied with my life, this is the gift of god. But then also, if ever in life knowingly or unknowingly I have ever hurt my elders (parents, teachers), I just want to change that like it never happened and say sorry to them.  





What is your weakness or what are you afraid of?
Most appropriate answer would be something like – Sir, I can make a presentation in front of hundreds of people but whenever it came to sing a song in the class, I really shivered and I couldn’t sing even a single line. Your weakness should be presented in such a manner that it doesn’t seem to be your weakness. 





What package you are looking for?
For freshers:

You are very lucky that you are sitting in an interview……you can’t be very demanding. Your answer should be, sir as per company policy whatever package would be offered I’ll accept that. But this is a very casual answer.

Your answer should be something like: “Sir, as you know I am a fresher and the only thing I can expect at this point of time is that I should get a job in a prestigious company like yours. Of course every one works for money I would be expecting something which is sufficient to make my living in a city and I should be able to support my family a bit. 





Do you have a girl friend/Wife?
Always speak the truth in your interview, never tell lies. Your views about her should not be orthodox and you should always be supporting and encouraging towards her. 





What is your Vision?
The answer for this question is to be decided by you. Before you start answering, you should understand the meaning of “vision”. Vision is a long term task/goal or long life commitment. Now this commitment can be with yourself, towards your society, wife, parents etc. e.g. I want to open an orphanage after finishing all family responsibilities. 





What is the mission of your life?
This is same as vision but the only difference is that mission is for short terms. Like when you were in class XII your mission was to get admission in a good Engineering College. It keeps changing with time. 





Where do you see yourself after 2-3 years from now?
The answer for this question varies from company to company and it depends on the hierarchy of the company. Your answer should be something like: Sir, initially I would be learning and knowing my work and company. In a year or after 1 year I expect from myself to be an expert in solving the issues on L1 level. And after that I would like to get a certification on the technology I am working. So within 2-3 yrs I expect myself to be a proficient engineer on L2 level. 





What are your hobbies?
This is a very tricky question, I repeat very tricky question. You should mention your hobbies in which you have deep knowledge. Like cricket or playing cricket, by mentioning cricket you have given a wide scope to the interviewer as he can ask any thing from cricket infact he can ask any year also. But by mentioning playing cricket you have reduced the scope. Another e.g. is Music and Listening Music. Mentioning reading as your hobby is very risky because if you have read some books and the interviewer has also read it then he can ask a lot of questions related to it. You should be very cautious about it. 
